```bash
lastlog -u student

getent passwd student

chsh -s /bin/bash student

# Jump to the end of the journal (-e, and enable follow mode (-f)
journalctl -ef
# This will display all messages generated by, and about, the sshd.service systemd unit.
journalctl -u sshd.service
# Display all messages in the journal with a priority in the range emerg up to and including err.
journalctl -p emerg..err
# Only show messages from the last system boot
journalctl -b -1

journalctl --since "2015-02-02 20:30:00" --until "2015-03-31 12:00:00"

journalctl -o verbose

# Enabling a persistent journal can be done by using the following steps:
mkdir /var/log/journal
chown root:systemd-journal /var/log/journal
chmod 2755 /var/log/journal

# Check the SELinux log for any denials today.
ausearch -i -m avc -ts today
restorecon -Rv /var/www

sos-report
redhat-support-tool
yum -y install redhat-access-insights
redhat-access-insights --register
yum -y install sos
sosreport -k xfs.logprint

# /etc/rsyslog.conf
logger "Test from logclient"

systemctl is-active rsyslog
systemctl is-enabled rsyslog

# Advanced Intrusion Detection Environment (AIDE)
yum install -y aide
# /etc/aide.conf
aide --init
aide --check

# Adds a recursive watch to the /etc/sysconfig directory and all files and directories beneath it. Watches for read, write, and attribute change access. Labels log messages with a custom key of sysconfig-access.
auditctl -w /etc/sysconfig/ -p rwa -k sysconfig-access
# Audits all executions of binaries under /bin.
auditctl -w /bin -p x

```

A Basic Input Output System (BIOS)-powered system goes through a number of steps from being powered down to having a running Red Hat Enterprise Linux system. The following list gives a high-level overview of the steps being taken. This list also applies to virtual machines that emulate a traditional BIOS system. This list assumes that the grub2 boot loader is being used. For different boot loaders, the list will differ.

The BIOS firmware is started and performs a Power On Self Test (POST).

The BIOS scans for (possible) boot devices, and orders them according to a user-set preference.

The boot devices are scanned in order for a boot firmware (such as a PXE ROM on network cards), an Master Boot Record (MBR), or a partition marked as bootable. If found, the BIOS executes it.

The first-stage boot loader stored in the MBR loads the stage 1.5 (drivers) and stage 2 boot loader from disk and executes it.

The boot loader loads a configuration file from disk. In the case of grub2, this will be /boot/grub2/grub.cfg.

The configuration file is parsed, and based on its contents, a boot entry is selected automatically or by the user.

The kernel and initial ramdisk referenced in the boot entry are loaded from disk, and control is handed over to the kernel.

The kernel starts, and initializes hardware using the drivers found in the initial ramdisk. A simple init system is also started from the ramdisk.

The scripts in the initial ramdisk mount the root file system of the target system, then switch root to the newly mounted file system, and hand over control to /sbin/init on the target root file system.

The init system mounts file systems and starts services according to its configuration.

```bash
# /etc/default/grub
# GRUB_TIMEOUT
# GRUB_DEFAULT
# GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX
grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/grub2/grub.cfg

chroot /mnt/sysimage
grub2-install /dev/vda
```
In order to boot a UEFI system using grub2, an EFI System Partition (ESP) needs to be present on disk. This partition should have the GPT UUID C12A7328-F81F-11D2-BA4B-00A0C93EC93B, or the MBR type 0xEF. This partition needs to be formatted with a FAT file system, and should be large enough to hold all bootable kernels and the boot loader itself. A size of 512 MiB is recommended, but smaller sizes will work. This partition should be mounted at /boot/efi, and will normally be created by the anaconda installer.

In order to work with Secure Boot systems, where signatures on boot loaders, kernels, etc., can be checked by the firmware to authenticate that only unmodified software is run, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 utilizes the shim UEFI boot loader.

The shim.efi application is signed with a key trusted by most UEFI firmware. When started, it will attempt to load grubx64.efi using the normal UEFI firmware calls. If the UEFI firmware refuses to load the application due to a bad signature, shim will attempt to verify the application using other keys compiled into shim, or a user-generated key stored in the UEFI NVRAM (Machine Owner Key (MOK)). When attempting to start a signed application for which no keys have been registered, the MokManager.efi application is started automatically so that an end user can register a personal key.

The shim.efi application also registers a new UEFI system call that can be used by grub2 to verify kernel signatures.

If shim.efi is not registered with the UEFI firmware, booting from the disk that contains the ESP will launch the /boot/efi/EFI/BOOT/BOOTX64.efi application. This in turn will launch the fallback.efi application, which automatically registers the shim.efi application and boots the system, based on the settings in /boot/efi/EFI/redhat/BOOT.CSV.
```bash
yum reinstall grub2-efi shim
grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/efi/EFI/redhat/grub.cfg

efibootmgr
# Removing an entry
efibootmgr -b 1E -B
# Selecting a temporary boot target
efibootmgr -n 2c
# Adding an entry
efibootmgr -c -d /dev/sda -p 2 -L "Yippie" -l "\EFI\yippie.efi"

systemctl list-dependencies nfs-server.service
yum -y install graphviz
systemd-analyze dot sshd.service | dot -Tsvg > sshd-dependencies.svg

mount -oremount,rw /sysroot
chroot /sysroot
echo redhat | passwd --stdin root
load_policy -i
touch /.autorelabel
restorecon -Rv /etc

lscpu
dmidecode -t memory
lsscsi -v
hdparm -I /dev/sda
lspci
lsusb

yum install mcelog
systemctl enable mcelog
systemctl start mcelog
journalctl -u mcelog.service
# /var/log/mcelog

yum install rasdaemon
systemctl enable rasdaemon
systemctl start rasdaemon
ras-mc-ctl --status
ras-mc-ctl --errors

yum install memtest86+
memtest-setup
grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/grub2/grub.cfg


```